README.md, before:

hybrid-autosign-puppet
======================

Allow autosign of puppet CSR based on request IP address or preshared-keys


Background 
----------

When puppetmaster receives a CSR from a new host it will run the script that will check Apache/Nginx accesslog to get the IP address of the machine that submitted the request.
If IP belongs to allowed network blocks it will sign the CSR rightaway, else will check for pre-sharedkeys.


Requirements
------------

- Perl 5+
- Perl Module YAML::Tiny
- Perl Module NetAddr::IP
- Apache/Nginx with passenger in charge of puppetmaster connections.


Install
-------

Installing perl modules on Debian:
```
apt-get install libyaml-tiny-perl libnetaddr-ip-perl
```

Installing perl modules on CentOS
```
yum install perl-YAML-Tiny perl-NetAddr-IP
```

Clone the repo inside puppet folder:
```
cd /etc/puppet/
git clone git@github.com:guzmanbraso/hybrid-autosign-puppet.git
```

Make puppet user owner of everything inside
```
chown puppet.puppet /etc/puppet/hybrid-autosign-puppet/ -R
```

Allow all users to read apache/nginx logs
```
chmod 755 /var/log/apache2
```

Configure
-----------------------

Copy example yaml:
```
cp hybrid-autosign.example.yaml hybrid-autosign.yaml
```

Edit they yaml and configure the full path to the apache accesslog.

To whitelist network blocks edit the file and add all networks inside 'networks_allowed'.

To generate shared keys run (replace shared_key_name with something useful):
```
tr -cd 'a-f0-9' < /dev/urandom | head -c 32 >/etc/puppet/hybrid-autosign-puppet/keys/shared_key_name
```

To enable autosign in puppetmaster edit puppet.conf and inside [master] add the following line:
```
autosign = /etc/puppet/hybrid-autosign-puppet/hybrid-autosign.pl
```

Puppet agents
-------------

To use network whitelisting you don't need to do anything on the agents.
   
To use preshared keys you need to add in the agent /etc/puppet a file named csr_attributes.yaml that looks like this:
```
extension_requests:
  pp_preshared_key: your_key_hash
```

Thanks & Future
----------------

Thanks to @lutter for inspiration, he made a bash script to allow preshared keys. For more info:
http://watzmann.net/blog/2014/06/puppet-autosign-policy.html

In the future I hope to convert this to a puppet module and allow more methods to sign csr, maybe integrate
something like https://github.com/mrzarquon/mrzarquon-certsigner from @mrzarquon which signs AWS instances
if belong to your AWS account. 

Also thanks to @jbouse who inspired the above module which later inspired @lutter.

Commit message:

Updated paths in Readme for Puppet5, added troubleshooting info to test the script

README.md, after:

hybrid-autosign-puppet
======================

Allow autosign of puppet CSR based on request IP address or preshared-keys


Background 
----------

When puppetmaster receives a CSR from a new host it will run the script that will check Apache/Nginx accesslog to get the IP address of the machine that submitted the request.
If IP belongs to allowed network blocks it will sign the CSR rightaway, else will check for pre-sharedkeys.


Requirements
------------

- Perl 5+
- Perl Module YAML::Tiny
- Perl Module NetAddr::IP
- Apache/Nginx with passenger in charge of puppetmaster connections.


Install
-------

Installing perl modules on Debian:
```
apt-get install libyaml-tiny-perl libnetaddr-ip-perl
```

Installing perl modules on CentOS
```
yum install perl-YAML-Tiny perl-NetAddr-IP
```

Clone the repo inside puppet folder:
```
cd /etc/puppetlabs/
git clone git@github.com:guzmanbraso/hybrid-autosign-puppet.git
```

Make puppet user owner of everything inside
```
chown puppet.puppet /etc/puppetlabs/hybrid-autosign-puppet/ -R
```

Allow all users to read apache/nginx logs
```
chmod 755 /var/log/apache2
```

Configure
-----------------------

Copy example yaml:
```
cp hybrid-autosign.example.yaml hybrid-autosign.yaml
```

Edit they yaml and configure the full path to the apache accesslog.

To whitelist network blocks edit the file and add all networks inside 'networks_allowed'.

To generate shared keys run (replace shared_key_name with something useful):
```
tr -cd 'a-f0-9' < /dev/urandom | head -c 32 >/etc/puppetlabs/hybrid-autosign-puppet/keys/shared_key_name
```

To enable autosign in puppetmaster edit puppet.conf and inside [master] add the following line:
```
autosign = /etc/puppetlabs/hybrid-autosign-puppet/hybrid-autosign.pl
```

Puppet agents
-------------

To use network whitelisting you don't need to do anything on the agents.
   
To use preshared keys you need to add in the agent /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ a file named csr_attributes.yaml that looks like this:
```
extension_requests:
  pp_preshared_key: your_key_hash
```

Troubleshooting with Puppet 5
-----------------------------

To debug the script first generate a new CSR from an agent, then look for the CSR file usually found on 
/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/requests/[[ certname ]].pem.

Ej. If is node1.test.net then csr would be in /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/requests/node1.test.net.pem, to simulate the signing request you should run the script like this:
```
/etc/puppetlabs/hybrid-autosign-puppet/hybrid-autosign.pl node1.test.net < /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/requests/node1.test.net.pem
```


Thanks & Future
----------------

Thanks to @lutter for inspiration, he made a bash script to allow preshared keys. For more info:
http://watzmann.net/blog/2014/06/puppet-autosign-policy.html

In the future I hope to convert this to a puppet module and allow more methods to sign csr, maybe integrate
something like https://github.com/mrzarquon/mrzarquon-certsigner from @mrzarquon which signs AWS instances
if belong to your AWS account. 

Also thanks to @jbouse who inspired the above module which later inspired @lutter.
